[AUDIENCE applauds]
Now, let's go, Satoko!
[SATOKO] Why must you
insist on dragging me around
like I'm a little child?
[RENA]
We should go too, Keiichi.
Okay, but where's
everyone going?
The river.
It's cotton‐drifting time!
Cotton?
Since it's your
first time doing it,
feel free to watch me
and follow along.
That's how the
basic movements go,
and you repeat them
while offering thanks
to Lord Oyashiro.
Lord Oyashiro?
It's the guardian
deity of Hinamizawa.
That's why it's so important
that we all pay our respects.
Thank you, our Lord Oyashiro.
A guardian deity?
And that's the ritual!
I guess we should go catch up
with Mion and the others.
Sounds good.
I'm sure they're not far.
I'll go find them!
Hey, wait up!
[RENA]
Don't worry, I'm fine!
Come on.
Huh?
Tomitake!
Well, I wouldn't
want to interrupt.
[CHIE]
Pardon me, Maebara.
Huh?
Hi, Ms. Chie. What's up?
There's someone waiting
at the front gate
who says he would
like to see you.
What? Who is it?
Oh?
I presume I'm speaking
to Mister Keiichi Maebara?
Yeah, that's me.
And who are you, exactly?
[OOISHI] Gotta say,
I don't care for the heat.
Huh?
If you don't mind,
I'd prefer to have
this conversation
in my air‐conditioned car.
Hold on.
Don't worry, son.
I'm not gonna
drive off with you.
[OOISHI] Let me know if
the AC is too much.
I tend to keep my car
a bit cooler than
a lot of people like.
Sure. So what are
we talking about?
[OOISHI] I was hoping I could
ask you about somebody.
Namely, the man
in this photograph.
[KEIICHI]
Tomitake, right?
[OOISHI]
Ah, so you're familiar with him.
[KEIICHI]
And?
[OOISHI] Tomitake was
seen there speaking with you
and your classmates at the
Watanagashi Festival last night.
But we'll come back to that.
Now, what about this woman?
I saw her with him last night.
That was the first time
I've seen her, though.
And when was the
last time you saw them?
[KEIICHI] At the very end, when
the festival was winding down,
but I didn't talk to them.
And did anything about them
strike you as unusual,
or cause for concern?
What is this really about?
What's going on?
[OOISHI] I'll be happy
to answer your question
just as soon as you
answer one more for me.
A slightly more personal one.
Do you believe in curses,
Mister Maebara?
I don't...
I'm not a little kid, so why
would I believe in curses?
[OOISHI]
I was hoping you'd say that.
You grew up in the city,
so you see things differently.
What's that have
to do with anything?
[OOISHI] You see,
out here in the boonies,
it's not unusual
to believe in curses.
The curse of
Oyashiro for instance.
Oyashiro?
That's how the basic movements
go, and you repeat them
while offering thanks
to Lord Oyashiro.
It all began four years ago.
A violent incident at the
Hinamizawa Dam building site.
You may have seen
the story in the news.
The victim was the
construction manager on the dam.
He was murdered and carved up
by six of the workers.
[gasps]
From that magazine.
[OOISHI] Five of the
perpetrators were caught,
but the apparent ringleader
was never found.
He's been missing ever since,
along with the
victim's right arm.
And what?
That happened because
of Oyashiro's curse?
I'm still not done telling
the story, Mister Maebara.
The next year,
one of the villagers who'd
supported the dam project died
while he was on vacation
with his family.
He fell in a river, got swept
away by the rapids and drowned.
His wife didn't
come back either.
It's generally believed
she drowned along with him,
but nobody ever found
the body to prove it.
The year after that,
the head priest at the local
shrine passed away unexpectedly
from a sudden illness.
And on that same day,
his wife threw herself
into the bog and drowned.
The same day.
That's awful.
[OOISHI] The pattern
continued for a fourth year.
That's last year,
if you weren't keeping track.
A woman was found beaten
to death out in the woods.
So someone dies
every year for four years,
and everyone
blames it on a curse?
It could be a coincidence!
[OOISHI]
Mister Maebara, please.
Whatever it is,
it's definitely safe to rule
out sheer coincidence.
All of these incidents happened
on the day of the
Watanagashi festival.
Someone's dying on
the same day every year.
The same day every year?
[OOISHI]
Each of the past four years,
the folks in Hinamizawa
lost one of their own
mysteriously during Watanagashi.
And the curse of Lord Oyashiro
is as good an explanation
as anyone's been
able to come up with.
[KEIICHI]
So, this year too?
[OOISHI] The man and
woman in these photos.
I'm afraid they went
missing last night.
Of course, the police are
doing everything in our power
to find them,
but nobody's seen a trace of
either one since the festival.
There's a lot of
ground to cover,
and we don't know
where to start.
But how do you know
they didn't just get a room?
It hasn't even been a day!
[OOISHI]
The woman's name is Takano,
and we've located her car.
Parked at the festival grounds,
exactly where she
would have left it.
And Tomitake's folding bike.
You know the one.
Also present and accounted for.
Given the circumstances,
it only makes sense for us
to treat them as disappearances.
Like I told you, we're
digging as hard as we can.
Thing is, folks in Hinamizawa
don't care to talk about
bad things happening on
the night of Watanagashi.
[KEIICHI] So you're asking
the new guy in town?
[OOISHI] The rest of
the villagers would be
perfectly happy to write off
Jiro Tomitake and Miyo Takano
as just two more casualties
of Lord Oyashiro's curse.
That's messed up.
Ignoring it.
You're preaching
to the choir, son.
It was a crime,
not a damn curse!
Excuse me.
[OOISHI] But yeah, that's
exactly why I'm asking you.
I need someone who
isn't scared of the curse,
and so do those two.
Okay.
I wanna help you out,
but I'm not sure how to do it.
Simple enough.
Just go on about your life,
but keep an eye 'n ear out,
and let me know if you
hear anything about this.
Here's my direct number.
Keep it to yourself.
And I'm gonna
need you to keep quiet
about our conversation
today as well.
Not a single word to anyone.
[KEIICHI]
Got it.
To be clear,
I'm telling you not
to mention any of this
to Mion Sonozaki
or your other friends.
What does that mean?
Are you trying to say they have
something to do with all this?
No, not at all.
But, the problem is
that can't be ruled out.
We just don't know enough.
And if anyone in
Hinamizawa hears we talked,
it'll get a lot harder
to find out more.
Hey, just think of it this way.
Your neighbors are already
scared of the curse,
and there's no need to give them
anything else to worry about.
You're really
doing them a favor.
I guess that's fair.
So, Mister‐‐
Ooishi with the
Okinomiya PD, or "Kura."
Not a stickler for
titles and all that.
[KEIICHI]
All right then, Mister Ooishi.
Then I suppose we'll be speaking
together soon, Mister Maebara.
I see it now.
It was in the lounge;
the weapon was a rope!
Well done, Rena!
You're quite skilled,
aren't you?
So whodunnit then?
And the culprit was Mion, right?
[laughs]
Nope, nice try!
Awooo!
[SATOKO]
Are you even familiar
with the word
"punctuality," Keiichi?
I am barely keeping
my anger in check.
Yeah. Sorry,
I got stuck in the office
longer than I thought I'd be.
Did you do something bad
to get called in there?
[giggles]
It's okay, I forgive you!
Honestly, the game was
so heated without you
I didn't even notice
you weren't here, Kei.
Rena lost though, so today's
penalty will be on her.
Awooo...
And you, too!
How's that work?
Failing to show means you
forfeit, which means you lose!
You should accept your fate.
Ah, dangit.
So what's the penalty for today?
Today, you're gonna be
on gofer duty, kids.
Grab the stuff on this list.
[RENA]
Uh... So we need tofu.
Mirin.
Hey!
You're just sending us
to buy your groceries!
[MION]
What's club rule number seven?
The loser carries out their
punishment, no matter what!
Dammit!
[yawns]
That's a pretty
big yawn, Keiichi!
I may have stayed up a
little too late watching TV.
What about lunch?
[KEIICHI] I think I'm
gonna take a nap instead.
Really? I wouldn't expect
you to willingly present
such an easy target!
Don't mess with me, all right?
I'm being serious.
Well, fine.
Just suck the fun out
of the room, then.
[RENA]
Huh? How long has it been?
Well, no one saw
them the day after,
so it had to have been
the night of Watanagashi.
[RENA] Would it have
taken both of them?
[MION] I can't say for sure,
but it seems like
the curse has struck again.
You think it was Lord Oyashiro?
It does fit that
pattern, doesn't it?
Yeah, everything about it.
They might have
been demoned away.
[KEIICHI]
That's suspicious.
What could it mean,
"demoned away"?
Mister Maebara!
Fancy meeting you here.
[KEIICHI]
Mister Ooishi?
Great timing.
I was hoping
we could talk a bit.
Here you go, sir. Enjoy!
[OOISHI] So, what do
you think of this place?
Oh. Well, it's... Um...
Just about everyone
in town loves it here.
If we're being honest,
the food is nothing too special.
But the scenery's great.
[KEIICHI]
Hey. Mister Ooishi?
[OOISHI]
Hmm?
What would it mean if
somebody was "demoned away"?
[OOISHI]
Hmm...
That's another folksy
local euphemism
for bad things happening.
When someone disappears
without a trace,
the villagers say a
demon came for them.
Like a worse version of
a spirit leading them off.
Is that right?
[OOISHI] You know, ages ago,
back in feudal times,
travelers were scared
to death of Hinamizawa.
They thought it was
a demon village.
Seriously?
As in, demons from Hell?
Not exactly.
More like the flesh‐eating kind.
The sort of monsters you might
read about in a folktale.
They show up, and just start
devouring people left and right.
[OOISHI] Anyway, what
leads you to ask about it?
I overheard Rena
and Mion talking.
They were saying it
had something to do
with the curse of Oyashiro.
Remember the first incident?
I told you about it, right?
Yeah, you did, you had said one
of the killers was never found.
[OOISHI]
And the natural assumption is
that he's still on the run,
but another theory holds that
he was taken by the demons.
Huh?
[OOISHI] The next year's
victims are both believed
to have drowned,
but again, only the
husband's body was discovered.
[KEIICHI]
What about the year after that?
We know two people
died then, right?
[OOISHI] That's our best guess,
Mister Maebara,
but we don't know.
We found the wife's sandals
and a suicide note.
No corpse.
Well, last year was
just the one woman
who was killed in
the woods, wasn't it?
[OOISHI] And we caught
the guy who did it, too.
Some lowlife junky.
But it so happens that junky
had a kid under his care,
and that kid disappeared
after the arrest.
Okay, but if you caught
the guy who murdered the woman,
there's no way they can claim
some curse killed her!
[OOISHI]
Of course not.
But later, when
he died in police custody,
they pinned that
on Lord Oyashiro.
Just like this.
Shiv to the throat.
So what you're saying is every
year fits the same pattern.
One person turns up dead,
then someone involved
with them disappears.
[OOISHI]
That's about the size of it.
I asked Rena and Mion both,
and they never said a thing
to me about any of that.
Did something bad happen?
Like at the building site.
Maybe, an accident, or‐‐
I don't know.
Rena.
[OOISHI]
I would assume
they just didn't wanna give
you a reason to worry,
especially if you
consider the timing.
Huh?
The curse kills
someone each year,
and somebody else gets
snatched up by the demons.
Technically we're still
waiting right now,
to learn what happened to who.
[gasps]
[RENA] I didn't realize
your dad was an artist, Keiichi!
[KEIICHI]
Yep.
You should see our house.
His studio is swallowing it
all up one room at a time.
Well, now I really wanna see it.
I bet I would find
something super kyute!
Awoo!
I have a question.
Have you guys been lying
to me about anything
or keeping something
hidden from me?
[RENA]
Huh? We would never do that!
Yes, you would.
[RENA]
Keiichi, why would you say that?
It's the truth!
You never said a word about‐‐
Okay. How 'bout you?
Fair's fair, isn't it?
So what are you not telling me?
We're friends, aren't we?
So have you lied?
Have you been lying to me
or keeping something
hidden from me?
Of course not.
I've always been
honest with you.
That's a lie.
Why do you think I'm lying?
[RENA]
Because I saw it.
You hid something
from me at the junkyard.
Something you didn't
want me knowing you'd seen.
Hold on.
[RENA] And you lied
about where you were
during the club meeting.
You didn't really go to the
teacher's office, did you?
How do you‐‐
[RENA] You were outside
in a car talking to someone.
An older man I didn't recognize.
Now, who was he, that man?
I didn't catch his name, but‐‐
And why would a total stranger
come to talk with you at school?
What, how would I know that?
Well, you know what
you talked about, don't you?
It had nothing to do with you!
You liar!
I worked super hard
like they all told me to.
Some people have to put
everything they have
into life to feel a
little happiness, Keiichi.
Do you realize that?
And I've tried so hard.
I have been trying my hardest
for so much of my life.
So then, we've both got things
we won't tell each other,
and there's nothing
wrong with that.
'Kay?
Now let's go,
it's getting chilly.
[ICHIRO]
Keiichi!
Someone from the bookstore
is calling you.
The bookstore?
This is Keiichi.
[OOISHI]
Good evening,
it's Ooishi from the
Okinomiya Police.
Please accept my apologies for
bothering you at this late hour.
[KEIICHI]
Mister Ooishi?
[OOISHI] And I should also
apologize for the cover story.
When your parents picked up,
I had to tell them I was
from the bookstore.
Okay, wait just a minute.
[OOISHI]
I wanted to give you an update.
I did a bit of digging after
our conversation earlier,
and I learned some things
that might be relevant.
Digging where?
[OOISHI] Into your friend
Reina Ryugu's story.
Honestly, it's not a very
exciting one all‐in‐all.
If you find yourself starting
to doze off halfway,
let me know and
I'll spare you the rest.
I'd like to hear it.
[OOISHI]
Up until last year,
Miss Ryugu lived in a suburb
in Ibaraki prefecture.
Yeah, she told me she'd
just moved here recently.
[OOISHI]
Huh. I looked into that,
and something
caught my attention.
It seems that shortly before
transferring here to Hinamizawa,
she got herself
suspended from school.
From what I found, she made
her way around campus
and smashed every
window in the place.
[KEIICHI]
Really?
[OOISHI] They diagnosed
her with dysautonomia,
root cause not known.
Started her on nerve medication
and got her into
psychological counseling.
I was able to get hold
of the therapist's notes
from those counseling
sessions, and again,
please feel free to stop me
if you feel yourself fading.
But there was one name
that she kept bringing up.
[KEIICHI]
What was it?
[OOISHI]
The name of Lord Oyashiro.
Thank you, our Lord Oyashiro.
[OOISHI]
It appears to have been ongoing.
She spoke of Lord Oyashiro
appearing every night.
She'd wake up, and a spirit
would be standing over her,
as if it was watching her sleep.
But how?
She just recently
moved to Hinamizawa.
Where would she
have heard the name?
[OOISHI] Oh, right, I hadn't
mentioned that I looked
into her family's
residency records.
And I found another wrinkle.
They moved to Ibaraki
from Hinamizawa.
They left the village
right after she finished
elementary school.
She's from Hinamizawa.
[OOISHI] Are you still
with me, Mister Maebara?
Maybe we should call it here.
[ICHIRO]
Hey, Keiichi!
Open up, I got something for ya.
Excuse me, my dad
is calling for me.
[OOISHI]
That's fine.
We're at a good stopping point.
Sorry to keep you.
Let me know if you
hear anything else.
[ICHIRO]
Come on, Keiichi, open the door!
Your poor ol' dad's arms
are gonna fall off!
[KEIICHI] You brought up
the fancy tea set?
You know I was
a teenager too, once.
What does that have
to do with anything?
Quit acting like she's not here.
She's not! Who's "she"?
Seriously, you can
stop acting coy.
Rena came to hang with you,
and she wasn't shy about it.
You're telling me you saw her?
Yeah, of course.
She showed up and said hi,
and I told her to go ahead and
meet you in your room upstairs.
When did you talk to her?
I don't know.
A few minutes after
you got that phone call?
[ICHIRO]
Wha... Hey, Keiichi?
Rena was here,
she came to my house.
And my dad told her
where my room is.
[KAIICHI] She heard me
talking to Mister Ooishi.
[RIKA] Next time,
Onidamashi‐hen, Part 4.